Hi! How can I help you?
Hello. I am taking AP Calculus. and I have 3 questions on my homework
Ok sounds good! I can help :)
What's the question?
So I have to find the domain and range of f(x)=1/(x-3)
So I thought it would be positive infinity to negative infinity but from my class notes it has to have some inequality sign
Which did you think that for? Domain, range, or both?
for the domain
Ok so domain is all the x values that "work" right?
yes
Ok so there's two things you have to look out for
1) Is there an x value which will cause you to divide by 0?
2) Is there an x value that makes you take the square root of a negative number?
yes which would be 3 so x can't be 3
Ok great!
what do you mean by the second thing I have to look out?
So to find the domain you just identify all the "bad" values for x. Those are ones that lead to division by 0 or taking the square root of non-positive numbers.
In this case, you only need to worry about the first thing!
And you are completely right that x can't equal 3
So you just have to write that requirement in the correct format using inequality symbols
this is one way to say x =/= 3
Wait but how is 4 there
Could that be the domain too?
Yes that's technically correct! It's just not usually how people write it, if that makes sense
so you could write: x >3 or x < 3
X can be all values that are less than 3 or greater than 3
ok that make sense thank you
got it!
you should ask your teacher too how they want you to write it
it seems like you understand the concept, it's just a matter of how you write it out !
Want to move on to the next question?
yes please
you can hit trash can to clear too!
Oops hold on one sec
Ok try these things (one of them might fix it)
click once on a screen
try drawing just one line.
Ok great! I think we fixed it. I'll report that bug though so that it doesn't happen again :)
What's the next problem?
Ok got it!
So this one is a little more tricky
but we want to do the same thing. We want to look for bad x values. the ones that lead to division by 0, and the ones that lead to square roots of negative numbers.
can you spot any bad values right off the bat?
x can't be 4
Perfect!
Because division by 0, right?
x can't be less then 4
cause that gives negative values
?
you can always do a quick test ! Let's plug in 4?
we want the top of the fraction to be greater or equal to 0
it can't be 4
because you get a undefined
Yup. Let's try 3 though
and if you plug 3 in you get non real answers
Ok so you were totally right! but that's how you can check it
Wait one question for you!
Can x be 2?
and what about 1 ?
no
So would it be 4 is less then x
as the domain
2 actually DOES work
because the square root of 0 is defined
but I plugged put x as 2 for h(x) and got non real numbers
on your calculator ?
yeah
Double check how you put it in your calculator
it should be: sqrt[ ( [2^2] - 4) / (2-4) ]
I did a mistake
I put 2 on the top instead of 4
so do you see why 2 is actually an allowed value for x now ?
yes
can you see everything I wrote in red at the top? Sometimes the windows are different sizes and it's hard to see
Try maximizing your window too if you are having trouble seeing it
not all of it
how can I do that
Actually let me do this instead, hold on
Ok can . you see it all now?
Essentially the top says (x-2)(x+2)
So I factored the top part of the fraction
I understand what you did but I can't see it
Nvm I see it
Ok so
The reason I factored it is because it will give you a hint to the true domain of the function
This is REALLY tricky but essentially every value between 2 and -2 WILL work for x
right off the back, you know that x=2 and x=-2 are values that are good / "defined"
I'm confused
Ok so you can test what h(x) is for these values to convince yourself: -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
But essentially, x can be any number between 2 and -2, and it can be any number greater than 4.
Wait so to find the domain we need to find a x value that solves to 0
right/
to find the domain, you find all x values for which h(x) is "defined"
defined as in I have to get 0 as the y or I can get a whole number
it can be ANY number (doesn't have to be a whole number, could be 0.5479 for example)
It's easier to think about what it CANT be. y CANT be imaginary, and y CANT be undefined (which happens when you divide by 0)
Would it be like that
almost
I think you reversed your inequalities
x can be BETWEEN -2 and 2
NICE! :D
but x can also be > 4
ok that makes sense
oh wait you still have the signs wrong
hold on
x between -2 and 2
this is honestly probably one of the hardest domain questions
yessss
it has potential division by 0 AND potential negative square roots.
it was really tricky
The best strategy for these is to make sure you factor everything, and then check a few values
It might take longer but it makes sure you don't miss anything
ok thank you for the strategy
can you help me find the range ?
so if you factor the top of the fraction, you can see that if you plug in a value between -2 and 2, you actually end up with a negative on the top AND the bottom of the fraction, making the inside of the square root positive.
YUP! :)
Range is EASIER for this problem!
Range is all the possible Y values.
once you know all the "good" x values, you can easily check all the possible y values
also you can graph it to double check your answer too btw.
ok so how could I find it without graphing ?
this is the graph by the way just so you can check your work after
but
to find the range, we want to plug in the "boundaries" of the allowed x values
like test some values plugged in to see what we get back for y
if x = 4.0001
what is y ?
so y can't be negative
Yup, that's accurate. Any time you have an entire function inside a square root, you know the domain must be y >= 0
so is that the range
always
there could be other y values that you can never get though
ok
so that's why we need to check some values
when you plug 1 in you get 1
I would check these numbers: -2, 1, 0 , 4.00001, 100000
a really big number, a number really close to the border of x > 4
and some of the numbers inside -2 <= x <= 2
to see what is happening to y
and in fact, that's exactly what you would show as the "work" on your paper or on a test
like a little graph of values you tested
so it looks like the lowest y value is 1
0 should be the lowest y value!
are you allowed to use calculators for this type of problem in your class?
right because of -2 and 2
Usually you would find the local min and local max using a calculator
ok
like copy paste it into the url box in a different tab
so you can see the graph
you'll see it's a really weird graph
I see it
it has two different lines
So the best way to get the range for this function is to use your calculator. Did you guys learn how to do that in class yet?
the teacher goes really fast
so it's like she does everything in her head
Ugh that's the worst!
yeahhh
Ok so, again, this problem is REALLY hard. But the strategy for finding the range is to make a list of x values you want to test to try and get a sense of what is happening to y as x changes
In this case, when you plug in values between -2 and 2, the lowest value you get back is 0. but the highest value is SLIGHTLY above 1. To get the exact value you should use a calculator.
And when you plug in 4.00001 you get a REALLY big number
which suggests that y can be infinitely big
ok thank you. I have 4 more questions on a different topic if you have time ?
Ok just one more thing for the range of this problem. I tested a few more values, like plugging in 6, and you'll see that y gets really low. In fact the min value is just a little bit below 4.
so the range is actually 0 <= y <= some number slightly above 1.
AND
y >= some number slightly below 4
so I should try and plug in values from -8 to 8
but you can find the exact numbers using your calculator
or -10 to 10
Yeah I think -10 to 10 is good. If you start to see a pattern you can stop, if that makes sense?
so I saw a pattern by checking 5, 6, 7, 8
yeah
Ok cool
Let's try the next problem :)
so the next problem is to state a rule and find the domain but it is set up differently
so I knew you had to add f(x) and G(x) for the first part but then I was stuck because I didn't know how to add them and then I saw I had to find the domain so basically I have no idea where to start
Hahaha ok
Does it ask you to write what f+g equals, or JUST find the domain?
I think that it wants me to somehow combine it and then find the domain
Got it
You have to first find the domain of f. then find the domain of g. The domain of f+g, f-g, AND f*g will be the part of the domain that f and g have in common.
Fortunately the domain for f(x) and g(x) is actually WAY easier to find than the last problem we did
do you have an idea of what it is?
no
Lets just start with f. To find domain, we are going to look for the bad x values like last time
can you think of any bad x values for f(x)?
anything less then 0
NICE! :D You are SO close!!
It's anything less than 1 (I think this is what you meant anyway!)
remember, the square root of 0 is actually defined. square root of 0 is 0.
so 1 is an ok value
yes
if we plug in 0.9 though...we get a negative number under the square root
Ok so.... since the stuff under the square root is the same in f and g, they actually have the SAME domain!
Isn't that nice? lol
yes
Great!
So their domain is the same, so f+g has the same domain too
and same for f-g, and f*g
f/g is the only one that is different.
btw f+g can be written as f(x) + g(x)
wait how does f-g and f*g have the same domain
Ok so I actually REALLY need to go, sorry! But my friend who is a volunteer on the platform said he can take over! Can you request help again? He'll accept the request right away because I gave him a heads-up. I'm going to send him a picture of what you wrote on the whiteboard already so you don't need to re-write it.
You're doing well though!!!
Sorry your teacher is going too fast :( I'm sure you can get the hang of it if you keep practicing
Have a good night!