Let f be the function defined by ((ax^2)+bx +2)/((2x^2)-8), a and b are constants. The graph of f has a horizontal asymptote at y=3 and f has a removable discontinuity at x=2. To make f continuous at x=2, f(2) should be defined as what value?
Hi!
What do you need help with?
Hi so I’m just confused as to what the question is asking
Sure, just write it out
Write out what
The question
Or draw it, etc
Or describe it
Let f be the function defined by ((ax^2)+bx +2)/((2x^2)-8), a and b are constants. The graph of f has a horizontal asymptote at y=3 and f has a removable discontinuity at x=2. To make f continuous at x=2, f(2) should be defined as what value?
Ok gimme one sec
Should it be defined as undefined?
Nope
ok great I’m lost
No worries, I'm just getting out a piece of paper to help myself think for a sec
But I can absolutely help you with this
okay thanks
Ok so first of all
the asymptote here doesn't matter
So you can forget about that
okay
Second
We're basically just interested in what happens at x=2
and with the equation they gave you, that's already undefined at 2
Like if you plug 2 into the equation, you get something/0
But, both sides of the graph otherwise converge on a point
Say it's five
(It's not five but just for the sake of explaining)
That's what it looks like, except instead of 5, the value is undefined at that one point
So what the question is asking is
What COULD you define the point to make the line continuous
And in this example case (not the question, but the one I just drew) the answer would be 5
But it’s undefined so there wouldn’t be an answer
Sort of
They know it's undefined, they're asking what you could define it as
so like a limit?
Yeah the way you get the answer is to take the limit from both sides
ohhhh
The thing is just that the value of the limit is different from the actual value at that point
so they're asking for the limit
Because the value is undefined
And all you're saying is, set the value equal to the limit and the line is continuous
So any idea what the limit is?
ill come back to it
I do get it now
I just have another class now
but thank you so much
cool!
glad to help