Hi!
hi I'm having trouble with polynomial functions
Okay.. will do my best to help here
what are you having trouble with?
I am having trouble with finding the intervals and maximum and minimum
I see
do you have a graphic calculator?
I do not have a graphing calculator, but the graphing website Desmos is helpful.
interesting let me try that too
it's been a while since i've worked with polynomials, so i need to refresh my memory a bit too
okay let's think about the domain first..
give me a sec, going to grab a calculator
it looks like the domain should be no restrictions right?
infinit to infinity? because you can plug in any real number as X and it would exist on the graph
So, the domain should be ARN?
or what I wrote on the white board is fine?
let me think..
the domain should be (-infinity, infinity)
I can't draw the infinity sign
like that
does that make sense?
So, if the domain is that for this graph, would that apply to all domains for any graph?
not necessarily
because the domain is saying
what number can i plug into this function
what can X be?
if there's a formulas where x is in the denominator
then x can't be zero, right? because it would make the function undefined
so let's say f(x) = 1/x
your domain would be: x<0, or x>0
meaning, we can have all x's allowed, except for 0
because anything divided by 0 is undefined
does that make sense?
yeah, it's making more sense
good
do you want to move onto range?
Yes, please.
alrighty
so range is the same thing! except
now instead of asking ourselves, what X values are allowed
now we think... what possible values for f(x) will happen
so just by looking at your chart in desmos
f(x) is any possible values up and down the y axis
so what do you think the range would be?
Im thinking all real numbers/values, or infinit to infinity?
exactly!
right? look at the chart
doesn't it look like the chart can go allllll the way upa
and all the way down
up to infinity, and down to negative infinity?
Yes, but this time would it be positive infinity first down to negative infinity
nope
it should go from negative infity to infinity
so the answer would be the same
okay so always read from left to right
yep!
that's what you see as the chart, right?
Yep, that's what I see on my calculator
okay
so onto relative max and min
so did you learn what relative max and min are?
what's the definition?
So, we slightly went over it in class, but my teacher is very hard to understand because she is teaching at a very fast rate, and has a strong accent.
but I learned that the max would be the highest point?
min would be the lowest? however, im not completely sure
right
so relative minimum and maximum are basically the peaks and the lowest point of the chart
technically the maximum and minimum are infinity... but we're looking for the relative max and min
and by that we care about all the points where the chart changes direction
so how many minimums do you think exist in this chart? and how many maximums?
I think one minimum and one maximum?
correct
so we answer using point coordinates
so you can see the coordinates of the min and max in desmos
so tell me what you think the min and max are
So I think the max is (2,4) and the min is (0,0), but I also see (3,0) next to (0,0)
TRUE
however
does the chart change direction at (3,0)?
just imagine the relative min as the bottom of all the humps, and the max is the top of all the humps
Yes, like it goes down
correct, so it is not a minimum
so your first two are correct
now
did you teacher show you how to calculate the derivative of the function?
because sometimes you might not have the luxury of just seeing the points on the chart
you might have to calculate it
I'm not sure what that means
okay maybe you guys didn't get there yet
Im taking an algebra ll and trig class and she didn't really mention anything like that
i see okay
derivatives is more calculus
alright so end behavior
end behavior i believe just means
what is the "end" behavior of this chart? where does f(x) approach as x approached infinity?
and where does f(x) approach as x approaches negative infinity
so its kind've like the domain and range?
yeah sort of
so you just write out the response as
as x -> -infinity, f(x) -> ???
and as x -> infinity, f(x) -> ???
so for the first one, as we keep plugging in larger and larger negative X values
the function, will just get exponentially larger, obviously, but in one what direction.. positive or negative infinity?
So as I read it from left to write: as x approaches positive infinity, f(x) approaches negative infinity
**right
that's correct
and then vice versa... as x approached negative infinity, f(x) approach positive infinity
just make sure you use the infinity signs lol
yeah haha I just don't know how to write them
Okay so out of everything, I think Im having most trouble with the intervals
here check out this link
just like how we did in the chat
https://www.khanacademy.org/math/algebra2/x2ec2f6f830c9fb89:poly-graphs/x2ec2f6f830c9fb89:poly-end-behavior/a/end-behavior-of-polynomials
okay.. intervals
im not sure how to get them
okay
let me see..
okay so when we are looking for the intervals
we're just looking at the X range, between the x-intercepts
did you go over what x-intercepts are?
I mean I know what x-intercepts are but I'm not sure if we did anything with them in this lesson
okay gotcha
so we just need to say the range in between the x-intercepts
so we have x-intercepts at (0,0) and (3,0)
right?
yeah
so the intervals would be shown as the x values between each intercept
so it would what I wrote?
sorry i was zoomed in
what's the inc and dec?
oh increasing and decreasing
got it
Yeah, but I don't know from where to start
got it
so
okay so the graph increases from where x is 0 up to right before it's at 2
so your inc interval would be (0,2)
yep
are there multiple or just one
only one increasing interval in this one
but there are two decreasing intervals in this one
take a stab at it
what's the range of X where the chart is decreasing?
okay im looking at the graph right now
hint: one of them is (-inf, 0)
okay so one is a (-inf, 0) and the other is (3, -inf)?
wait no
close
you're getting there
it starts to decrease not at x = 3... but at x = ??
at x=4?
x = 2
but where do I start
look for the decreasing
so it's two decreasing intervals
(-inf, 0) and (2, inf)
that make sense?
when x is from negative infinity to 0, the chart is decreasing; and also when x is from 2 to infinity it is also decreasing
okay the red marks on the graph helped alittle
it's messy but do you get the idea?
gosh my handwriting is terrible
but that's what it'd be
you can also write these in a different format
do the green make sense?
Yeah I understand it better now
good
i wish i could see what your text book chapter looks like
but yeah, this is the general idea
thank you!! this definetly helped
you're very welcome!!
i'm glad i can help
sometimes it's best to read about a math concept from different sources
like khan academy and googling
lot of great places that might explain it better than your teacher
I will take a look at khan academy and watch a few videos, but this concludes the session. thanks again
of course, have a great night!