I'm doing geometry trying to xy? wx=5 and wy=12. trying to find xy*
Hi! Hi! Sorry for the delay- how can I help Just read over your problem! Just read over your problem!
Hi Im trying to find xy wx=5 and wy=12
Great! So what info do you have now Great! So what info do you have now haha awesome haha awesome You answered my question You answered my question So you are trying to find xy So you are trying to find xy
i think xy=7
And you already have wx and wy And you already have wx and wy Awesome! Awesome! How did you get xy = 7 How did you get xy = 7
i know 5 and 7 makes12 so i thought i count the line twice as much.
Yea so drawing it out really helps Yea so drawing it out really helps the total line is wy, which is 12 the total line is wy, which is 12 And you have part of it, wx = 5 And you have part of it, wx = 5 And you are looking for the mysterious xy And you are looking for the mysterious xy The good thing is if you know how much the entire line is, and you also now how much a part of it is, you can find the missing part by just subtracting! The good thing is if you know how much the entire line is, and you also now how much a part of it is, you can find the missing part by just subtracting! wy - wx = xy! wy - wx = xy!
its 7. so it was 7 at first but i need the problem wrong?
Exactly! That is the piece that is left :D Exactly! That is the piece that is left :D
did * ok thanks
Not a problem! Not a problem! Make sure to fill out the feedback form and hit end session! Make sure to fill out the feedback form and hit end session! It helps us make this an even better experience for everyone :) It helps us make this an even better experience for everyone :) Have a great rest of your day! Have a great rest of your day!
u as well. am i subtracting these too?
What does the question ask? What does the question ask?
FH=21 and GH=15
Yup! Yup! You are subtracting the part You are subtracting the part GH GH from the whole from the whole
ok thanks
FH FH to find the only other missing part FG to find the only other missing part FG Glad I could help! Glad I could help!
6?
Yes! Yes!
ok
You got it! See you figured it out You got it! See you figured it out Remember to hit end session at the top right and give us feedback :) Remember to hit end session at the top right and give us feedback :)